Update "Debug a Progressive Web App (PWA)" (#3841)
MicrosoftDocs/edge-developer: microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/index.md

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Unregistering or updating a service worker.
```

Reviewer: Move **Unregister** up, so it's next to **Update**. They're next to each other in the UI.

Author: The above PR Comment (3 PR Comments) seems to have no connection to the surrounding content.  Where is "Unregister", "Update", "Source", and "Status"?  What are the comments referring to?

@captainbrosset 

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841#service-worker-caches

Author: Ans: the 3 comments were entered into the **Service worker caches** section, but they should be entered in the **Service workers** section:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841#service-workers

@captainbrosset

Reviewer: Also move **Source** up to be after **Unregister**, to match the UI.

Reviewer: Same here. **Status** should be before **Push**, to match the UI.

Reviewer: This section title is "Quota usage", yet the content doesn't really talk about quota.

At a minimum, we should link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Storage_API/Storage_quotas_and_eviction_criteria on MDN, which discusses PWA storage and quota.

Reviewer: Also, this section doesn't mention anything related to DevTools, which means to me that we should probably delete it from this article. The goal of this article is not to explain how storage and quotas work in PWAs. It's to explain how to debug PWAs from DevTools.

Author: critically compare each upstream vs. downstream section 
scenario: upstream updated a sentence, that was previously copied (outdated) in an existing section.

   * [Test URL protocol handler registration](#test-url-protocol-handler-registration)
* [Service workers](#service-workers)
* [Display network requests handled by a service worker](#display-network-requests-handled-by-a-service-worker)
* [Service worker caches](#service-worker-caches)
* [Quota usage](#quota-usage)
* [Clear storage](#clear-storage)
* [Other Application tool guides](#other-application-tool-guides)
* [See also](#see-also)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introduction
<!-- heading not upstream; content = top of https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/ -->

Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) are modern, high-quality applications built using web technology.  PWAs offer similar capabilities to apps on iOS, Android, and desktop:

* PWAs are reliable even in unstable network conditions.
* PWAs are installable to launch-surfaces of operating systems, such as:
   * The **Applications** folder on Mac OS X.
   * The **Start** menu on Windows.
   * The home screen on Android and iOS.
* PWAs show up in:
   * Activity switchers.
   * Device search engines such as Spotlight.

>    * In content sharing sheets (todo: clarify).

Author: clarify "content sharing sheets"
@captainbrosset 
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841#introduction

Reviewer: I'm not sure but I think this is about mobile sharing. For example, when you view a photo on your mobile device, you can share that photo with other apps, such as your messaging app. PWAs can trigger share dialogs, and can also appear in share dialogs. See https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/share

Author: ```
* PWAs show up in:
   * Content sharing sheets.  For example, when you view a photo on your 
mobile device, you can share that photo with other apps, such as your 
messaging app.  A PWA can trigger share dialogs, and can also appear in 
share dialogs.  See 
[Share content with other apps](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/share.md).
```

   * [Test URL protocol handler registration](#test-url-protocol-handler-registration)
* [Service workers](#service-workers)
* [Display network requests handled by a service worker](#display-network-requests-handled-by-a-service-worker)
* [Service worker caches](#service-worker-caches)
* [Quota usage](#quota-usage)
* [Clear storage](#clear-storage)
* [Other Application tool guides](#other-application-tool-guides)
* [See also](#see-also)

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Introduction
<!-- heading not upstream; content = top of https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/ -->

Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) are modern, high-quality applications built using web technology.  PWAs offer similar capabilities to apps on iOS, Android, and desktop:

* PWAs are reliable even in unstable network conditions.
* PWAs are installable to launch-surfaces of operating systems, such as:
   * The **Applications** folder on Mac OS X.
   * The **Start** menu on Windows.
   * The home screen on Android and iOS.
* PWAs show up in:
   * Activity switchers.
   * Device search engines such as Spotlight.

>    * In content sharing sheets (todo: clarify).

Reviewer: We could also just delete this entire list of capabilities and refer readers to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/ instead.

Author: keeping, to match upstream, to facilitate Maint.  Section already has that link:
```
See also:
* [Overview of Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](../../progressive-web-apps/index.md)
```

The features that are discussed below are features of the **Application** tool are relevant for PWAs.  For help on the other features and panes in the **Application** tool, see:
* [Other Application tool guides](#other-application-tool-guides), below.
* [View the resource files that make up a webpage](../resources/index.md)
* [View and edit local storage](../storage/localstorage.md)

See also:

> * [Progressive Web Apps](https://web.dev/progressive-web-apps) at web.dev.
> * [Overview of Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](../../progressive-web-apps/index.md)

Reviewer: No need to link to web.dev here since we have our own PWA docs at LMC.

```suggestion
See also:
* [Overview of Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)](../../progressive-web-apps/index.md)
```

   * [Test URL protocol handler registration](#test-url-protocol-handler-registration)
* [Service workers](#service-workers)
   * [UI controls in the Service Workers page](#ui-controls-in-the-service-workers-page)
   * [Display network requests handled by a service worker](#display-network-requests-handled-by-a-service-worker)
* [Service worker caches (Cache storage page)](#service-worker-caches-cache-storage-page)
* [Clear storage (Storage page)](#clear-storage-storage-page)
* [See also](#see-also)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### About Progressive Web Apps (PWAs)
<!-- heading not upstream; content from https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/ -->

Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) are modern, high-quality applications built using web technology.  PWAs offer similar capabilities to apps on iOS, Android, and desktop:

* PWAs are reliable even in unstable network conditions.
* PWAs are installable to launch-surfaces of operating systems, such as:
   * The **Applications** folder on Mac OS X.
   * The **Start** menu on Windows.
   * The home screen on Android and iOS.
* PWAs show up in:
   * Activity switchers.

>    * Device search engines such as Spotlight.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Device search engines such as the Windows Start menu.
```

>    * Content sharing sheets.  For example, when you view a photo on your mobile device, you can share that photo with other apps, such as your messaging app.  A PWA can trigger share dialogs, and can also appear in share dialogs.  See [Share content with other apps](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/share.md).

Reviewer: We can probably shorten this and keep it understandable.

```suggestion
   * Sharing dialogs, such as when sharing files between apps.  A PWA can trigger share dialogs, and can also appear in share dialogs.  See [Share content with other apps](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/share.md).
```

> The features that are discussed below are features of the **Application** tool are relevant for PWAs.  For help on the other features and pages in the **Application** tool, see:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The features that are discussed below are features of the **Application** tool that are relevant for PWAs.  For help on the other features and pages in the **Application** tool, see:
```

  * Going offline.
  * Stopping a service worker.

* Use the **Storage** pane to view how much data your app is storing on the device, and clear the stored data.

* Use the **Cache storage** pane to view your service worker cache.

todo: create an added png showing these tree items of interest

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Web app manifest
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#manifest -->

If you want your users to be able to add your app to the following, you need a web app manifest:
* The **Applications** folder, on Mac OS X.
* The **Start** menu, on Windows.

> * The home screen, on Android and iOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To let users install your app, you need a web app manifest.
```

The web app manifest defines:
* How the app appears on the home screen of a mobile device.
* Where to direct the user when launching the app from the home screen.

> * What the app looks like when launched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The app icon and name, once installed on the device.
* Where to direct the user when launching the app from the device.
* What the app looks like when launched.
```

Related guides:
* [Improve user experiences with a Web App Manifest] /web/fundamentals/web-app-manifest  (todo: link to section when available)

> * [Using App Install Banners] /web/fundamentals/app-install-banners (todo: link to section when available)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Use Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) in Microsoft Edge](../progressive-web-apps/ux)
```

To inspect a manifest:

> 1. Go to the webpage that uses the manifest, such as [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/), in a new window or tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to a webpage that uses a web app manifest, such as [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/), in a new window or tab.
```

App shortcuts let you to provide quick access to a handful of common actions that users need frequently.

To inspect the shortcuts that you defined in your manifest file, scroll to the **Shortcut #N** sections of the **Manifest** page in the **Application** tool.  The **Shortcut #N** sections are below the **Windows Control Overlay** section of the **Manifest** page:

![Shortcut section in the Manifest tab](./index-images/shortcut-sections.png)

The above screenshot is from the [PWA manifest localization demo](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwa-manifest-localization/), which defines a shortcut in its manifest file.

See also:
* [Define app shortcuts (long-press or right-click menus)](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/shortcuts.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
<!-- #### Inspect screenshots for a richer installation UI -->
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#screenshot -->
<!-- omitted chrome-only section -->

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Test URL protocol handler registration
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#test-protocol-handler -->

> A PWA can handle links that use a specific protocol, for a more integrated experience.  To create a handler, see [URL protocol handler registration for PWAs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/best-practices/url-protocol-handler) (todo: local link or mdn)

Author: replace "URL protocol handler registration for PWAs" by local link or mdn
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/best-practices/url-protocol-handler

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841&source=docs#test-url-protocol-handler-registration

@captainbrosset

& in h2 See also

Reviewer: We have a local article for this: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/handle-protocols

Author: ```
A PWA can handle links that use a specific protocol, for a more integrated 
experience.  To create a handler, see 
[Handle protocols in a PWA](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/handle-protocols.md).
```

The PWAmp demo supports protocol handling, in [`manifest.json`, lines 100-105](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/blob/402867e2fc0cd625e6c2a2504664064d3cd36ea9/pwamp/manifest.json#L100-L105)

To test protocol handling:

1. Go to the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo in a new window or tab.

   **Install the PWA:**

1. On the right side of the Address bar, click the **App available.  Install PWAmp music player** (![The "App available, Install" icon](./index-images/app-available-install-icon.png)) button.

   The **Install PWAmp music player app** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Install** button.

   The PWAmp demo opens in a window, and the **App installed** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Allow** button.

   The **Apps** dialog opens, asking "Would you like to pin PWAmp music player to your taskbar?"

1. Click the **Yes** button.

>    **Test the protocol, in DevTools:**

Reviewer: Shouldn't we start a new list of steps here? The current list contains 14 steps, which is very long, and not all steps carry the same importance. There are 3 sub-lists in the list:

1. Install the app. Developers wanting to test protocol handling in DevTools are likely already working on an app that uses protocol handling. So they very likely already have the app installed. I'm not saying we don't need this section. We do need it, but it's a section which many readers will want to skip over. And right now, because it's all just one long list, it's harder to quickly scan what to skip over.
2. Test by using DevTools
3. Test by using the Run app

Again, because 2 and 3 are part of the same list, it's hard to quickly scan that these are different options which a reader might want to choose from.

Author: <img width="466" height="353" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/65060423-06ed-489c-895d-81430871ee94" />

1. Right-click the app, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens in a dedicated window.

1. Select the ![Application tool](./index-images/application-icon.png) **Application** tool.

1. In the tree on the left, expand **Manifest**, and then select **Protocol Handlers**.

   The **Manifest** page scrolls down to the **Protocol Handlers** section.

1. In the **Enter URL** text box, enter `remote-song:https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/songs/OverTheStargates.mp3`:

   ![The Test protocol button](./index-images/test-protocol.png)

> 1. Click the **Test protocol** button.  todo: doesn't seem to work, opens new tab in Edge

Author: Clicking the **Test protocol** button doesn't seem to work, opens new tab in Edge
pls test the two ways @captainbrosset 
* DevTools
* non-DevTools

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841&source=docs#test-url-protocol-handler-registration

Reviewer: Yes, I've had this bug too. I sent a report to the DevTools team.
The expected behavior is that the app should launch. Can we document this in the meantime?

Author: ```
1. Click the **Test protocol** button.

   The installed PWA opens, demonstrating that the URL protocol handler registration works.
```

   The **Install PWAmp music player app** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Install** button.

   The PWAmp demo opens in a window, and the **App installed** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Allow** button.

   The **Apps** dialog opens, asking "Would you like to pin PWAmp music player to your taskbar?"

1. Click the **Yes** button.

Next, test URL protocol handler registration, using one of the following ways.

<!-- ---------- -->
###### Test URL protocol handler registration by using DevTools

To test URL protocol handler registration by using DevTools:

1. Install the PWA, per [Install the PWA](#install-the-pwa), above.

1. Right-click the app, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens in a dedicated window.

1. Select the ![Application tool](./index-images/application-icon.png) **Application** tool.

1. In the tree on the left, expand **Manifest**, and then select **Protocol Handlers**.

   The **Manifest** page scrolls down to the **Protocol Handlers** section.

1. In the **Enter URL** text box, enter the following:

   ```
   remote-song:https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/songs/OverTheStargates.mp3
   ```

>    ![The Test protocol button](./index-images/test-protocol.png) _todo: show string in text box_

Author: show string in text box

1. In the outline on the left, in the **Application** section, select **Manifest**.

   The **Manifest** pane is displayed:

   ![The Manifest Pane](./index-images/manifest-pane.png)

   The **Manifest** pane contains the following sections:
   * **Manifest** - contains the manifest link.
   * **Errors and warnings**
   * **Identity** - displays fields from the manifest source file in a user-friendly display.
   * **Presentation** - displays fields from the manifest source file in a user-friendly display.
   * **Protocol Handlers**
   * **Icons** - displays every icon that's been specified in the manifest.
   * **Window Controls Overlay**
   * **Screenshot #1**
   * **Screenshot #2**

>    * **Screenshot #3**

Reviewer: This isn't a hardcoded list of 3 screenshots. There can be 0 to N. So maybe:

```suggestion
   * Optionally, **Screenshot**
```

   
1. Click the link below the **App Manifest** label, such as `manifest.json`.

   The manifest file opens, such as [/pwamp/manifest.json](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/manifest.json).

> To simulate an "Add to home screen" event, click the **Add to home screen** button (todo: where?).  See [Simulate an "Add to home screen" event](#simulate-an-add-to-home-screen-event), below.

Reviewer: This is no longer possible. Delete this paragraph.

See also:

> * [Add a web app manifest](https://web.dev/add-manifest/) at web.dev.

Reviewer: We have our own PWA docs, so no need for a web.dev link here:

```suggestion
See also:
* [Get started developing a PWA](../progressive-web-apps/how-to/).
```

If you prefer, you could also link to the manifest section of that article: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/#the-web-app-manifest-manifestjson

Author: ```
See also:
* [Use Progressive Web Apps (PWAs) in Microsoft Edge](../../progressive-web-apps/ux.md)
* [The web app manifest (`manifest.json`)](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/index.md#the-web-app-manifest-manifestjson) in _Get started developing a PWA_.
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### View and check maskable icons
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#icons -->

The **Icons** section of the **Manifest** page of the **Application** tool displays all the icons of your application.  In the **Icons** section, you can also check safe areas for maskable icons, which is the format of icons that adapt to platforms.

To trim the icons so that only the minimum safe area is visible, select the **Show only the minimum safe area for maskable icons** checkbox:

![Viewing the minimum safe areas for maskable icons](./index-images/viewing-minimum-safe-area.png)<!-- https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/ -->

If your entire logo is visible in the safe area, the formatting is valid.

See also:
* [Adaptive icon support in PWAs with maskable icons](https://web.dev/articles/maskable-icon) at web.dev.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Trigger installation

Reviewer: I think we might be able to delete this entire h4 (and child h6) section.
This section is not related to debugging a PWA in DevTools. It explains how to install a PWA in Microsoft Edge (which is a user doc).

The child h6 section _is_ related to devtools, but I think it's obsolete. It was likely useful when the Application tool had a so-called "simulate add to home screen" feature. This feature no longer exists. And the **App available** button in the address bar of Microsoft Edge does not appear if the app is not installable. So there is no case where a user would try to install the app but installation would fail with messages in the Console tool.

So let's delete this h4+h6 section.

Author: ```
<!-- ------------------------------ -->
<!-- #### Trigger installation -->
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#trigger-installation -->
<!-- omitted section b/c not related to debugging a PWA in DevTools.  explains how to install a PWA in Edge (covered in end-user doc'n) -->

<!-- ---------- -->
<!-- ###### Monitor the Console tool in the Quick view panel -->
<!-- heading not upstream; content is upstream -->
<!-- omitted section b/c obsolete, was useful when Application tool had a "simulate add to home screen" feature.  the App available button in the address bar of Edge doesn't appear if the app isn't installable, so there is no case where a user would try to install the app but installation would fail with messages in the Console tool -->
```

<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#trigger-installation -->

Microsoft Edge makes it possible for you to enable and promote the installation of your PWA directly within its user interface.

See also:

> * [How to provide your own in-app installation experience](https://web.dev/customize-install/) at web.dev.

Reviewer: There's an MDN article on this topic, let's use it:

```suggestion
* [Trigger installation from your PWA](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/Progressive_web_apps/How_to/Trigger_install_prompt) at MDN.
```

Author: not changing this, b/c deleting the containing h4 section

The **Install app** feature (todo: The "Add to home screen" feature?) cannot simulate the workflow for mobile devices.  The desktop Microsoft Edge browser displays the installation button in the Address bar, even though (todo: even when?) DevTools is in Device Mode (todo: true? is DevTools in Device Mode? is this describing a png?) (todo: local link).  However, if you can successfully add your app to your desktop, then the app will work for mobile, too.

todo: global: maybe the old ui was **Add to home screen** and the new ui is **Install app**.

The **Add to home screen** feature cannot simulate the workflow for mobile devices.  Notice how the "add to shelf" prompt was triggered in the screenshot above (todo: what screenshot?), even though DevTools (in the screenshot) is in Device Mode (Device Emulation).  However, if you can successfully add your app to your desktop shelf, then it works for mobile, too.

See also:
* [Emulate mobile devices (Device Emulation)](../device-mode/index.md)

<!-- ---------- -->

> ###### Test a mobile device

Reviewer: I would also delete this section, but keep the link to "Remotely debug Android devices" somewhere in the article. Maybe as a See also somewhere.

Author: ```
<!-- ---------- -->
<!-- ###### Test a mobile device -->
<!-- heading not upstream; content is upstream -->
<!-- omitted section -->
```
next section, Simulate an "Add to home screen" event, already has links: 
```
See also:
* [Remotely debug Android devices](../remote-debugging/index.md)
* [Remotely debug Android WebViews](../remote-debugging/webviews.md)
* [Remotely debug Windows devices](../remote-debugging/windows.md)
```

<!-- heading not upstream; content is upstream -->

To test out the actual mobile experience:

1. Connect a mobile device to DevTools via remote debugging.  See [Remotely debug Android devices](../remote-debugging/index.md).

1. To trigger the installation on the connected mobile device, open the three-dot menu (![The three-dot menu icon](./index-images/three-dot-menu.png)) (todo: where, in the app on the device?  in devtools on the device?  is there a tooltip showing name of three-dot menu, on some platform?), and then click **Install app**.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Simulate an "Add to home screen" event

Author: delete this h4 section; outdated

You can test out this feature with the [Microsoft I/O 2016 progressive web app](https://events.alpahabet.com/io2016/), which supports "Add to home screen".  When you click the **Add to home screen** button, Microsoft Edge displays the "add this site to your shelf" banner, which is the desktop equivalent of the "add to home screen" banner for mobile devices.

![Add to desktop shelf] todo: io.png

To test the actual mobile experience:

1. Connect an actual mobile device to DevTools via remote debugging.

1. Click the **Add to home screen** button (in DevTools) to trigger the "add to home screen" prompt on the connected mobile device.

See also:
* [Remotely debug Android devices](../remote-debugging/index.md)
* [Remotely debug Android WebViews](../remote-debugging/webviews.md)
* [Remotely debug Windows devices](../remote-debugging/windows.md)

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Inspect shortcuts
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#shortcut -->

App shortcuts let you to provide quick access to a handful of common actions that users need frequently.

> To inspect the shortcuts that you defined in your [manifest file](https://web.dev/articles/app-shortcuts#define_app_shortcuts_in_the_web_app_manifest), scroll to the **Shortcut #N** sections of the **Manifest** page of the **Application** tool.  The **Shortcut #N** sections are below the **Windows Control Overlay** section of the **Manifest** page:

Reviewer: No need to link to web.dev mid-sentence. Also, this should be formatted as a list of steps instead.

```suggestion
To inspect the shortcuts that you defined in your manifest file, scroll to the **Shortcut #N** sections of the **Manifest** page of the **Application** tool.  The **Shortcut #N** sections are below the **Windows Control Overlay** section of the **Manifest** page:
```

![Shortcut section in the Manifest tab](./index-images/shortcut-sections.png) todo: pwamp

> The above screenshot is from the [Rowsie](https://rowsie.app) (todo: pwamp) demo page.  For more examples of shortcuts, inspect the demo page.

Reviewer: You can use https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwa-manifest-localization/ which defines 1 shortcut in its manifest file.

<img width="1142" height="739" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bde98922-365a-4539-82f3-c35d7597a19b" />

Author: ```
![Shortcut section in the Manifest tab](./index-images/shortcut-sections.png)

The above screenshot is from the [PWA manifest localization demo](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwa-manifest-localization/), which defines a shortcut in its manifest file.
```

See also:

> * [App shortcuts](https://web.dev/articles/app-shortcuts) at web.dev.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Define app shortcuts (long-press or right-click menus)](../progressive-web-apps/how-to/shortcuts)
```

Author: ```
See also:
* [Define app shortcuts (long-press or right-click menus)](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/shortcuts.md)
```

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Inspect screenshots for a richer installation UI

Reviewer: Let me get back to you on this one. I don't think we support the "rich installation UI" in Edge. If I'm right, we can delete this entire h4 section. Will confirm once I know for sure.

Reviewer: Confirmed: this is not implemented in Edge. Only in Chrome.

Author: ```
<!-- ------------------------------ -->
<!-- #### Inspect screenshots for a richer installation UI -->
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#screenshot -->
<!-- omitted chrome-only section -->
```

<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#screenshot -->

When you add a description and a set of screenshots to your manifest file, your app gets a richer installation dialog.

To inspect the screenshots, scroll down to the **Screenshot #N** sections of the **Manifest** page of the **Application** tool:

![The installation dialog, and screenshots in the Manifest page](./index-images/screenshots-populating-the-installation-dialog.png) (todo: pwamp)
<!-- https://airhorner.com -->

See also:
* [screenshots](https://web.dev/add-manifest#screenshots) in _Add a web app manifest_ at web.dev.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->

> #### Test URL protocol handler registration

Reviewer: I just realized that we also have https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/protocol-handlers, an article dedicated to protocol handling testing from DevTools.

Author: ```
See also:
* [Test Progressive Web App (PWA) protocol handling](./protocol-handlers.md)
```

1. From the demo page, install the PWA and reload the app after the installation.

   The browser has now registered the PWA as a handler for the web+coffee protocol.

_end of excerpt from upstream_

To test a handler:

1. Go to the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo in a new window or tab.

   todo: does pwamp cover URL protocol handler registration?  which demo to use?  

1. On the right side of the Address bar, click the **App available.  Install PWAmp music player** (![The "App available, Install" icon](./index-images/app-available-install-icon.png)) button.

   The **Install PWAmp music player app** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Install** button.

   The PWAmp demo opens in a window, and the **App installed** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Allow** button.

   The **Apps** dialog opens, asking "Would you like to pin PWAmp music player to your taskbar?"

1. Click the **Yes** button.

1. Right-click in the app window, and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens in a dedicated window.

   todo: resume here rewriting steps

1. Reload the app.

>    The browser has now registered the PWA as a handler for the `web+coffee` protocol.

Reviewer: Dont think reloading the app is needed.

The protocol that PWA,mp registers is `web+amp`.

1. In the **Application** > **Manifest** > **Protocol Handlers** section, enter the URL (todo: URL portion?  URL suffix?  URL path?) that you want the handler to test, and then click the **Test protocol** button:

   ![Testing the handler] ./index-images/testing-handler.png todo

   In this example, the handler can process `americano`, `chai`, and `latte-macchiato`.

   Microsoft Edge asks you if it can open the app.

1. Click the **Open Protocol Handler** button:

   ![Open the app] open-protocol-handler.png todo

   The **Allow app to open web+coffee links?** dialog opens:

   ![Allow to handle links] allow-handle-links.png todo

1. Click the **Allow** button.

>    The handler processes the link.  An image of a coffee cup is displayed in the app.

Reviewer: I think these steps will need to be rewritten. For example, I don't think there is an **Open Protocol Handler** button.

To test from DevTools, you can enter `remote-song:https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/songs/OverTheStargates.mp3` next to **Test protocol**:

<img width="1001" height="230" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5577596d-82d6-4f35-93d8-13cb27113671" />

<!-- ====================================================================== -->

> ## Service workers

Reviewer: Note that we also have this article that's dedicated to debugging service workers from DevTools: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/javascript/background-services

Author: ```
See also:
* [Debug background services](../javascript/background-services.md) - debugging service workers from DevTools.
* [Service worker overview](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/workbox/service-worker-overview) at `developer.chrome.com`.
* [Push notifications overview](https://web.dev/push-notifications-overview/) at `web.dev`.
```

<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#service-workers -->

Service workers are a fundamental technology in the web platform.  A _service worker_ is a script that the browser runs in the background, separate from a webpage.  Service worker scripts enable your app to access features that don't need a webpage or user interaction, such as:
* Push notifications.
* Background sync.
* Offline experiences.

See also:

> * [Service worker overview](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/workbox/service-worker-overview) at `developer.chrome.com`.

Reviewer: Link to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/#the-service-worker-to-cache-the-apps-files-on-the-local-device-swjs instead.

Author: ```
* [The service worker to cache the app's files on the local device (`sw.js`)](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/index.md#the-service-worker-to-cache-the-apps-files-on-the-local-device-swjs) in _Get started developing a PWA_.
```

> * [Push notifications overview](https://web.dev/push-notifications-overview/) at `web.dev`.

Reviewer: Link to https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/push instead.

Author: ```
* [Re-engage users with push messages](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/push.md)
```

See also:
* [screenshots](https://web.dev/add-manifest#screenshots) in _Add a web app manifest_ at web.dev.

<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Test URL protocol handler registration
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#test-protocol-handler -->

todo: format, links, pngs - https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#test-protocol-handler

A PWA can handle links that use a specific protocol, for a more integrated experience.  To learn how to create a handler, see [URL protocol handler registration for PWAs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/best-practices/url-protocol-handler) (todo: local link or mdn)

_upstream:_

To test your handler:

1. Open DevTools on the landing page of your PWA.  For example, check out the [URL protocol handler](https://chrome.dev/devtools-protocol-handler/) demo.

1. From the demo page, install the PWA and reload the app after the installation.

   The browser has now registered the PWA as a handler for the web+coffee protocol.

_end of excerpt from upstream_

To test a handler:

1. Go to the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo in a new window or tab.

>    todo: does pwamp cover URL protocol handler registration?  which demo to use?  

Author: does pwamp cover URL protocol handler registration? 
which demo to use?

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841#test-url-protocol-handler-registration

@captainbrosset

Reviewer: yes, PWAmp supports protocol handling.
Here are the lines of code for it in manifest.json: https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/blob/402867e2fc0cd625e6c2a2504664064d3cd36ea9/pwamp/manifest.json#L100-L105

Reviewer: To test it:
1. Install PWAmp
2. Open the Start menu
3. Type "run" and press Enter, to open the Run dialog
4. Enter `web+amp:remote-song:https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/songs/OverTheStargates.mp3` and press Enter

This should launch PWAmp, proving that protocol handling works.

Author: ```
<!-- ------------------------------ -->
#### Test URL protocol handler registration
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#test-protocol-handler -->

A PWA can handle links that use a specific protocol, for a more integrated experience.  To create a handler, see [URL protocol handler registration for PWAs](https://developer.chrome.com/docs/web-platform/best-practices/url-protocol-handler) (todo: local link or mdn)

The PWAmp demo supports protocol handling, in [`manifest.json`, lines 100-105](https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/Demos/blob/402867e2fc0cd625e6c2a2504664064d3cd36ea9/pwamp/manifest.json#L100-L105)

To test protocol handling:

1. Go to the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo in a new window or tab.

1. On the right side of the Address bar, click the **App available.  Install PWAmp music player** (![The "App available, Install" icon](./index-images/app-available-install-icon.png)) button.

   The **Install PWAmp music player app** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Install** button.

   The PWAmp demo opens in a window, and the **App installed** dialog opens.

1. Click the **Allow** button.

   The **Apps** dialog opens, asking "Would you like to pin PWAmp music player to your taskbar?"

1. Click the **Yes** button.

1. Open the **Start** menu.

1. Type "run", and then press **Enter**.

   The **Run** dialog opens.

1. Enter `web+amp:remote-song:https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/songs/OverTheStargates.mp3`, and then press **Enter**.

   The **Microsoft Edge** dialog opens, asking "Allow app to open web+amp links?"

   !["Microsoft Edge" dialog](./index-images/allow-app-to-open-links.png)

1. Click the **Allow** button.

   PWAmp launches (as an installed app), proving that its protocol handling works.

See also:
* [Test Progressive Web App (PWA) protocol handling](./protocol-handlers.md)
```

1. In the outline on the left, in the **Application** section, select **Service workers**.

   The **Service workers** page is displayed:

   ![The Service workers page](./index-images/service-workers-page.png)

>    The **Service workers** page lists the service worker for this PWA (`/pwamp/sw.js`), and also the service workers for other demos: `/pwa-timer/`, `/wami/`, `/pwa-to-do/`, and `/1DIV/`.  These other service workers are listed because they're part of the same domain name, `microsoftedge.github.io`.  If the demos had separate domains, such as `pwamp.com`, only the PWAmp service worker would be listed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The **Service workers** page lists the service worker for this PWA (`/pwamp/sw.js`). If you have previously used other demos also hosted at `microsoftedge.github.io`, the **Service workers** page also list the service workers for these demos, such as `/pwa-timer/`, `/wami/`, or `/pwa-to-do/`.  These other service workers are listed because they're part of the same domain name, `microsoftedge.github.io`.  If the demos had separate domains, such as `pwamp.com`, only the PWAmp service worker would be listed.
```

Author: ```
The **Service workers** page lists the service worker for this PWA (`/pwamp/sw.js`).  If 
you previously used other demos that are hosted at `microsoftedge.github.io`, the **Service 
workers** page also lists the service workers for these demos, such as `/pwa-timer/`, 
`/wami/`, or `/pwa-to-do/`.  These other service workers are listed because they're part 
of the same domain name, `microsoftedge.github.io`.  If the demos had separate domains, 
such as `pwamp.com`, only the PWAmp service worker would be listed.
```

      * The offline mode that's available from the ![Network icon](./index-images/network-icon.png) **Network** tool.
      * Selecting `Go offline` in the Command Menu.  See [Run commands in the Command Menu](../command-menu/index.md).

   * The **Update on reload** checkbox forces the service worker to update on every page load.

   * The **Bypass for network** checkbox bypasses the service worker and forces the browser to go to the network for requested resources.

* Links in the upper right

   * The **Network requests** link takes you to the **Network** tool with a list of intercepted requests related to the service worker (the `is:service-worker-intercepted` filter).  See [Display network requests handled by a service worker](#display-network-requests-handled-by-a-service-worker), below.

   * The **Update** button performs a one-time update of the specified service worker.

   * The **Unregister** link unregisters the specified service worker.  To unregister a service worker and wipe storage and caches with a single button-click, see [Clear storage (Storage page)](#clear-storage-storage-page), below.

* Lines in the service worker's section

>    * The **Source** line tells you when the currently running service worker was installed.  The link is the name of the source file of the service worker.  Choosing on the link sends you to the source of the service worker.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * The **Source** line tells you when the currently running service worker was installed.  The link is the name of the source file of the service worker.  Clicking the link opens the source code of the service worker in the **Sources** tool.
```

>    * The **Status** line tells you the status of the service worker.  The ID number next to the green status indicator (`#36` in the previous figure) is for the currently active service worker.

Reviewer: The screenshot doesn't show `#36`.

Author: ```
* The **Status** line tells you the status of the service worker.  The ID number 
* next to the green status indicator (`#292` in the previous figure) is for the 
* currently active service worker.
```

Author: <img width="1673" height="233" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f8e9e4ed-0f1c-4b6a-9376-6c781bc94bff" />

     Next to the status:
     * If the service worker is stopped, a **Start** button is displayed.
     * If the service worker is running, a **Stop** button is displayed.

>      Service workers are designed to be stopped and started by the browser at any time.  Explicitly stopping your service worker using the **stop** button may simulate that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     Service workers are designed to be stopped and started by the browser at any time.  Explicitly stopping your service worker using the **Stop** button may simulate that.
```

     Stopping your service worker is a great way to test how your code behaves when the service worker starts back up again.  It frequently reveals bugs due to faulty assumptions about persistent global state.

   * The **Clients** line tells you the origin that the service worker is scoped to.  The **focus** button is mostly useful when you have multiple registered service workers.  If you click the **focus** button next to a service worker that is running in a different tab, Microsoft Edge focuses on that tab.

   * The **Push** button emulates a push notification without a payload (also known as a _tickle_).  See [How push works](https://web.dev/push-notifications-how-push-works/) at web.dev.

   * The **Sync** button emulates a background sync event.

>    * The **Periodic sync** section has a **Periodic sync** button.  todo: state purpose

Author: summarize purpose of **Periodic sync** section
@captainbrosset 

https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#service-workers - article lacks "periodic".

h2:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841&source=docs#service-workers
h4:
https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841&source=docs#ui-controls-in-the-service-workers-page

Reviewer: We have local articles for both sync and periodoc sync:
- Sync: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/background-syncs#use-the-background-sync-api-to-synchronize-data-with-the-server
- Periodic sync: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/progressive-web-apps/how-to/background-syncs#use-the-periodic-background-sync-api-to-regularly-get-fresh-content

```suggestion
   * The **Periodic sync** button emulates a periodic sync event, to test code that uses the Periodic Background Sync API. See also [Use the Periodic Background Sync API to regularly get fresh content](../../progressive-web-apps/how-to/background-syncs.md#use-the-periodic-background-sync-api-to-regularly-get-fresh-content) in _Synchronize and update a PWA in the background_.
```

And something similar for the previous bullet point.

Author: <img width="1702" height="101" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a261966a-78b3-491b-9d38-7c81098eea2a" />

   The **Service workers** pane is displayed:

   ![The Service workers pane](./index-images/service-workers-pane.png)

>    todo: why does "Application > Service workers" for PWAmp demo list SWs for /pwa-timer/, /wami/, /pwa-to-do/, & /1DIV/, as well as /pwamp/?

Reviewer: Uninstall these other apps before taking screenshots.
These SWs appear because they're all part of the same domain name, i.e. https://microsoftedge.github.io/
If we had custom domains for each of our demos (e.g. www.pwamp.com), this would not happen.

Author: I don't have any of those PWAs installed.
Current png is ok, tho shows a bit of one other PWA SW:
<img width="1001" height="606" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/25c10be6-a251-4a6d-82b3-17c3fb83e3b0" />

@captainbrosset

Author: ```
   The **Service workers** pane is displayed:

   ![The Service workers pane](./index-images/service-workers-pane.png)

   The **Service workers** pane lists the service worker for this PWA and also 
the service workers for other demos: `/pwa-timer/`, `/wami/`, `/pwa-to-do/`, 
and `/1DIV/`.  These other service workers are listed because they're part of the 
same domain name, `microsoftedge.github.io`.  If the demos had separate 
domains, such as `pwamp.com`, only the PWAmp service worker would be listed.
```

   ![The Cache storage page](./index-images/cache-page-cache-storage-resources.png)

The first time you open a cache and add a resource to it, DevTools might not detect the change.  Refresh the page to display the cache.

All open caches are listed under the **Cache storage** expander.

See also:
* [Cache](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Cache) at MDN > Web APIs.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
<!-- ## Quota usage -->
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#opaque-responses -->
<!-- omitted section b/c article is how to debug PWA via DevTools, not explain how storage & quotas work in PWAs -->

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Clear storage (Storage page)
<!-- Clear storage  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#clear-storage -->

Clearing storage is useful when developing a progressive web app.  Clear storage, to unregister service workers and clear all caches and storage.

To clear storage:

1. Open a PWA, such as the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo, in a new window or tab.

> 1. Right-click the PWA (todo: installed, or not?) and then select **Inspect**.

Author: does the PWA have to have been installed?  
show DevTools for the PWA webpage, or for the installed PWA?

https://review.learn.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-edge/devtools/progressive-web-apps/?branch=pr-en-us-3841&source=docs#clear-storage-storage-page

@captainbrosset

Reviewer: No, a PWA can use a service worker and store data in the cache without being installed.

Author: <img width="1092" height="115" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19c8aa00-a268-443a-be83-7bbbbee3331d" />

* The **Update Cycle** table displays the service worker's activities and their elapsed times, such as **Install**, **Wait**, and **Activate**.  To see the exact timestamp of each activity, click the **Expand** (![Expander triangle](./index-images/expander-icon.png)) buttons.

If the service worker causes any errors, an **Errors** label is displayed:

![Service worker with errors] todo sw-error.png

todo: capture "Service Worker Errors" sample when available

> todo: link Web "How tickle works" sections when available

Reviewer: I don't know what this is. Remove?

Author: A _tickle_ is a push notification that doesn't have a payload.
@captainbrosset

## Clear storage (Storage page)
<!-- Clear storage  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#clear-storage -->

Clearing storage is useful when developing a progressive web app.  Clear storage, to unregister service workers and clear all caches and storage.

To clear storage:

1. Open a PWA, such as the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo, in a new window or tab.

1. Right-click the PWA, and then select **Inspect**.

   The PWA doesn't need to have been installed.  A PWA can use a service worker and store data in the cache without being installed.

   DevTools opens.

1. Select the ![Application icon](./index-images/application-icon.png) **Application** tool.

1. In the tree on the left, select **Application** > **Storage**.

   The **Storage** page opens:

   ![The "Clear site data" button](./index-images/clear-site-data-button.png)

1. Click the **Clear site data** button.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also
<!-- Other Application panel guides  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#other -->
<!-- all links in article -->

> <!-- local: (todo: in toc order) -->

Author: sort per toc order

Some responses within the **Cache Storage** pane may be flagged as being "opaque".<!-- [opaque](/web/fundamentals/glossary#opaque-response) -->  This refers to a response retrieved from a different origin, like from a **CDN**<!-- [CDN](/web/fundamentals/glossary#CDN) --> or remote API, when [CORS](https://fetch.spec.whatwg.org/#http-cors-protocol) isn't enabled.

todo: link Web "CDN" section when available

todo: link Web "opaque" section when available

In order to avoid leakage of cross-domain information, significant padding is added to the size of an opaque response used for calculating storage quota limits (for example whether a `QuotaExceeded` exception is thrown) and reported by the `navigator.storage` API.

todo: link to Estimating "`navigator.storage` API" sections when available:  
See also:

> * [Estimating available storage space] whats-new/2017/08/estimating-available-storage-space

Reviewer: This is not needed if we link to https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Storage_API/Storage_quotas_and_eviction_criteria

Author: ```
In order to avoid leakage of cross-domain information, significant padding is 
added to the size of an opaque response used for calculating storage quota 
limits (for example whether a `QuotaExceeded` exception is thrown) and 
reported by the `navigator.storage` API.  See 
[Storage quotas and eviction criteria](https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/API/Storage_API/Storage_quotas_and_eviction_criteria) at MDN.
```

The details of this padding vary from browser to browser, but for Microsoft Edge, this means that the **minimum size** that any single cached opaque response contributes to the overall storage usage is [approximately 7 megabytes](https://bugs.chromium.org/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=796060#c17).  Remember the padding when determining how many opaque responses you want to cache, since you may easily exceed storage quota limitations much sooner than you otherwise expect based on the actual size of the opaque resources.

Related Guides:
* [Stack Overflow: What limitations apply to opaque responses?](https://stackoverflow.com/q/39109789/385997)
* [Alphabet work container: Understanding Storage Quota] /web/tools/Alphabet-work-container/guides/storage-quota#beware_of_opaque_responses - todo

todo: link Work container storage quota for opaque responses section when available

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Clear storage
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#clear-storage -->

> todo: there's no longer a "Clear Storage" tab/pane, though upstream outdated section mentions it and links to an article about it, but that linked upstream article no longer says "the Clear Storage tab/pane"

Reviewer: The **Clear storage** tab is now a button under **Application** > **Storage** > **Clear site data**.

Author: ```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Clear storage
<!-- https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#clear-storage -->

Clearing storage is useful when developing a progressive web app.  Clear storage, to unregister service workers and clear all caches and storage.

To clear storage:

1. Open a PWA, such as the [PWAmp](https://microsoftedge.github.io/Demos/pwamp/) demo, in a new window or tab.

1. Right-click the PWA (todo: installed, or not?) and then select **Inspect**.

   DevTools opens.

1. Select the ![Application icon](./index-images/application-icon.png) **Application** tool.

1. In the tree on the left, select **Application** > **Storage**.

   The **Storage** pane opens:

   ![The "Clear site data" button](./index-images/clear-site-data-button.png)

1. Click the **Clear site data** button.
```

The **Clear Storage** tab is useful when developing a progressive web app.  Use the **Clear Storage** pane to unregister service workers and clear all caches and storage, with a single button-click.

<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## Other Application tool guides
<!-- Other Application panel guides  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#other -->

For the other panes of the ![Application icon](./index-images/application-icon.png) **Application** tool, see:
* [Inspect page resources](/iterate/manage-data/page-resources)
* [Inspect and manage local storage and caches](/iterate/manage-data/local-storage)

> todo: link to the above sections when available

Reviewer: We have quite a few we can link to:

<img width="396" height="864" alt="Image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a1d4b7f2-9057-4203-8be6-899b29f72e23" />

Author: ```
<!-- ====================================================================== -->
## See also
<!-- Other Application panel guides  https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#other -->
<!-- todo: all links in article -->

* [Application tool, to manage storage](../storage/application-tool.md)
* [Inspect network activity](../network/index.md)
* [Remotely debug Android devices](../remote-debugging/index.md)
* [Remotely debug Android WebViews](../remote-debugging/webviews.md)
* [Remotely debug Windows devices](../remote-debugging/windows.md)
```

Author: upstream section is dubious:
**Other Application panel guides**
https://developer.chrome.com/docs/devtools/progressive-web-apps/#other

Use _Separation of Concerns_; the other features of Application tool are low relevance.  This article needs to focus on its topic.

Downstream heading is h2 **See also**.  That standardized section is designed to support nav to other semi-relevant topics.

@captainbrosset
